Update `GBC 2022 Autumn` (#8060)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Tournaments/GBC/GBC_2022_Autumn/en.md

  - [Bilibili stream](https://live.bilibili.com/10183) (::{ flag=CN }:: [aiyulu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/189617))
- **[Register here](https://wj.qq.com/s2/10842634/1ffa/)**
- [GBC QQ Group](https://jq.qq.com/?_wv=1027&k=zqBeTqMW)

> - [Information Speedsheet](https://docs.qq.com/sheet/DZUVwTnF1aEVmdlVX)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Information spreadsheet](https://docs.qq.com/sheet/DZUVwTnF1aEVmdlVX)
```

2. There will be some players been eliminated in qualifier and Drafting phase.
3. Regular stage have 4 rounds, used to be 3. only teams with 2-1 or 1-2 record will participate round 4.
4. Player can't be banned in a match until he has finished a game in this match.
5. The team pick beatmap first can't ban players in the first 2 rounds.
6. Picking beatmaps and banning players should be sent at a single message, if a team continues to be slow at banning, referees have rights to **ignore this ban**.

> 7. "Total matches score difference" added as a last resort for ranking in regular stage.

Author: This is a summary, for people familiar with the last tournament to know what changes quickly, all rules said here will also be mentioned in the following parts. 
I still thinking if necessary to remove this part.

 the detail explains it is in *### Regular stage instructions.*

> 2. The final ranking of the Swiss round will be determined by the following criteria in order: 
...
> - Highest total matches score difference (`∑(score difference in each beatmaps)` in the whole regular stage) 
...

to clear, the score is the sum of each beatmaps `(Team total score - his opposite's total score)`

> 7. "Total matches score difference" added as a last resort for ranking in regular stage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. "Sum of the score differences of each beatmap" added as a last method for determining ranking in the regular stage.
```

8. Mappool size increased by 2 maps.
9. For Regular stage ranking, now compare beatmap difference first, then opposite wins[^ow].

The following rules are changed to consistent with rules on `MWC 4k 2022` : 

10. The winner of the `!roll` could **choose** to pick first or ban first of the match.
11. Failed Player's score still get added to the team score.
12. Allowed Team to rematch if any team member disconnected on early of the beatmaps.

> 13. Referees have rights to lower or higher timer settings.

Author: I think timer settings not only include "match start timers." for example, pause time, and picker time is also included.
this rule is a copy from `MWC 2022` so this is just my understanding.

> 13. Referees have rights to lower or higher timer settings.

Reviewer 2: edited

"higher" can't be used as a verb - other tournament rulesets may get proofread again at some point, especially older ones

> 14. Calling tactical timeout on Tie-breaker need both teams' captains agreement.

Author: will sync both on the following rulesets.

> 14. Calling tactical timeout on Tie-breaker need both teams' captains agreement.

Author: in **Match procedures**
> 7. Each team will receive **one** "tactical timeout" of **two minutes**, to be used as extra time to pick or ban a beatmap. *The tactical timeout is optional.*
   - The tactical timeout may be called on a tiebreaker, provided that both teams' captains agree to it.

any suggestion? or kept it as it was is fine.

8. At all times, the captains may communicate with each other via multiplayer chatrooms or voice chat. 
   - Other players will be muted during the drafting phase.
9. After the drafting phase, captains may choose, with the approval of the host, to delegate their role to other prospective team members.
10. Captains may also choose to rename their team name after the drafting phase.
    - The default name of team is: `Team {X}`, with `{X}` being an abbreviation of the captain's name.
    - Team names can't be longer than **12** characters (Chinese character is considered as 1).
11. Bad behaviour during the drafting phase will be seen as disrupting the match by foul play.

### Regular stage instructions

1. Following the drafting phase, a 4-round Swiss stage will be played. This means teams with same record will face each other.
2. The final ranking of the Swiss round will be determined by the following criteria in order:
   - Most matches won
   - Head-to-head result (if possible)
   - Highest beatmap difference (`beatmap wins - beatmap losses`)
   - Most Opposite won[^ow]
   - Most beatmaps won
   - Fewest beatmaps lost

>    - Highest total matches score difference (`∑(score difference in each beatmaps)` in the whole regular stage)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Sum of all score differences of each beatmap (`∑(total score - opponent's total score)` for each beatmap played in the regular stage)
```

8. At all times, the captains may communicate with each other via multiplayer chatrooms or voice chat. 
   - Other players will be muted during the Drafting phase.
9. After the Drafting phase, captains may choose, with the approval of the host, to delegate their role to other prospective team members.
10. Captains may also choose to rename their team name after the Drafting phase.
    - The default name of team is: `Team {X}`, `{X}` is the abbreviation of captain's name.

>     - Team names can't be longer than **12** characters (Chinese character is considered as 1).

Author: yes, usually in the program a Chinese character would be considered as 2. since the team's name will using on room settings, I think a clear Chinese character still considered as 1 is necessary.
so I will only modify the `cannot` part. if you agree with that.

>     - Team names can't be longer than **12** characters (Chinese character is considered as 1).

Reviewer 2: ok i've edited the suggestion

>     - Team names can't be longer than **12** characters (Chinese character is considered as 1).

Author: got it

> 11. Bad behaviour during the Drafting phase will be seen as disrupting the match by foul play.

Author: so i will replacing all "Drafting phase" to "drafting phase"

### Regular stage instructions

1. Following the Drafting phase, a 4-round Swiss stage will be played. This means teams with same record will face each other.
2. The final ranking of the Swiss round will be determined by the following criteria in order:
   - Most matches won
   - Head-to-head result (if possible)
   - Highest beatmap difference (`beatmap wins - beatmap losses`)

>    - Most Opposite won[^ow]

Author: as discussed with the host, lots of audiences doesn't familiar with the "Buchholz score" —— even the "Swiss" system, so we try to use simple words to replace these “professional” words.
how about "opposites' winning matches?" (opposites' match difference (`opposites match wins - opposites matches losses`) ) 
if still not clear, I will use the "Buchholz score" back. (which also think better personally )

>    - Most Opposite won[^ow]

Reviewer 2: including "Buchholz score" is better, and then you can have a footnote explain what it is. although if it's `all opponents' wins - all opponents' losses`, then isn't it a different system? according to the [wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buchholz_system), it'd be `wins * (sum of all your opponents' wins)` (excluding draws, which are worth half of a win). if it's not the same system, then let's not write that it's Buchholz

>    - Most Opposite won[^ow]

Author: As Wikipedia shows.
> When used for tie-breaking among players with the same raw score, no multiplying is necessary and the sum of the raw scores of the opponents played is used to break ties ([Golombek 1977](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buchholz_system#CITEREFGolombek1977)).

just opposite's **raw score**.

As [PGL Major Antwerp 2022](https://liquipedia.net/counterstrike/PGL/2022/Antwerp) shows, we could use `all opponents' wins - all opponents' losses` to calculate the raw score.

So it's confirmed that the "Buchholz score" surely has ambiguity and causes misunderstanding, I will apply your suggestion to the modified footnote later.

   - The team mentioned first in the room name must be the red team, the team mentioned second in the room name must be the blue team.
2. Each captain can ban **one beatmap** from the pool. These beatmaps can not be picked by any team for the entire duration of the match.
3. Both captains will alternate picking a beatmap from the mappool.
4. Each captain must use `!roll` once in `#multiplayer`.
   - The winner of the `!roll` could choose to pick first or ban first of the match. The other choose will be used by loser team.
5. After each pick, both captains **could** ban **one** of the opposing team members from playing this beatmap in this match, **except in tiebreaker**. A player can't be banned until he has finished playing a beatmap on this match.
   - Any player can only be banned like this **once** per match.
   - The team pick beatmap first can't ban players at the 2nd round (opposite's first pick round).
     - As the former rules, no teams could ban players in 1st round since they haven't finished playing any beatmap.

>    - Team that is picking beatmaps should ban player first.

Reviewer 2: does this rule add anything that isn't covered by the other rules? i'm not sure i'm understanding this one

Author: This is an emphasis of this rule:   
> Picking beatmaps and banning players should be sent **at a single message**, if a team continues to be slow at banning, referees have the right to **ignore this ban**.

in case some team doesn't say their bans on the same message, this rule is to hint teams not pick this map needn't say player bans until the opposite is sent.

Reviewer 2: ah i see

```suggestion
   - The team that is currently picking a beatmap gets to ban a player first, before the other team.
```

Author: emmmm.... seemed weird but will apply, the conversion leaves open, waiting for more suggestions.

     - ... Unless its absolutely necessary, **both** teams request and agree to it, and staff avaliable.
   - **Do not ask for reschedule unless it is absolutely needed. The host reserves the right to deny any reschedule requests.**
6. Captains are responsible for their team's availability.

## Notes

> [^ow]: opposites' total match difference, also called as "Buchholz score".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^ow]: opposites' total match difference, also referred to as "Buchholz score".
```
